So here is a short lecture
on KMS API calls limits, and data key caching.
So when your application is making API calls to KMS,
you have a service limit that you can hit.
And KMS is an expensive service.
So there's a number of requests per second limit
and if you use KMS too much, you will be throttled.
So how can you go around it?
Well, number one, you can increase this service limit,
of course, but number two, you can do data key caching
and data key caching is to reuse the data keys
that you've created out of KMS to protect your data.
So instead of generating a new key every time,
you are going to reuse the data key
for encryption operations.
So let's turn and understand a use case.
So we have a user, we're using something that already
has the data key catching mechanism implemented
but we could write it ourselves.
But the AWS encryption SDK has this for us.
The user makes one API call into KMS to get a data key.
So it's a generate data key API call
and we're going to cache it.
That means we're going to keep it for a while
so we can encrypt several files with it.
And then we can also use it to decrypt the files
that were encrypted with the same data key.
So instead of doing three or four API calls to KMS,
we are doing one API call
because we're reusing the data key.
So the goal of this, of course, is to, for example,
reduce latency because we don't do API calls
to KMS all the time.
We improve the throughput, we reduce the cost
because we call KMS less and less
and we stay within service limits.
So this is implemented in some SDK,
such as the AWS encryption SDK.
But using this data key caching has a trade off, of course.
It's discouraged to use it too much because, well,
the whole principle behind encryption
is the unicity of data keys.
So this is definitely a trade off of cost versus security
but an option you need to know about.
All right, that's it.
I hope you like this lecture
and I will see you in the next lecture.